### Essey on the text "Having Children Prolongs Life"

Dr. Esben Agerbo did a quality work in order to deduce the proper correlation between a life longevity and a fact of having children. But other studies must follow his work if want to know for sure if there is causal relation.

Personally, I think there are common causes possible in human's life which leads to reduced life term and a higher chance of not having a child. Like some decease, a cacoethes, a tendency to depressive states etc. So I'm still not convinced and consider that there is no solid proof of causation between lack of children and short life expectancy.

Nonetheless, my most deep beliefs are that every human being should strive to produce a progeny, support it during all the lifetime and make own and children's life as happy as it possible with minimizing negative impacts on surrounding people and environment as a whole. Every man and woman living up until today is a heir of ~3.8 billion years long germ line which has never been broken, not once. It would be a crime against your genes to refuse to have a child.

Children fulfills human life with the meaning. They gives hope for better tomorrow, for better humanity.


### 1) Watch the video and try to learn all the new words.
https://www.engvid.com/english-teacher/emma/  "IELTS Writing Task 1: How to describe a process"

Find, choose the  information about a flow-chart, write your own describing. You have to to use this template
(introduction, main body, overview) and do not forget to mention the sequencers: next, once etc.

With modern tendencies of having children later in their lives more and more people resort to an assisted reproduction. The most commonly used procedure is in-vitro fertilization (IVF) with standard insemination. Let's describe IVF as step-by-step process.

First, **control ovarian hyperstimulation** (COH) is done. According to the most common protocol (long GnRH-Agonist) the secretion of gonadotropin hormones is suppressed in order to prevent premature ovulation. Gonadotropin injections on daily basis lead to recruitment of multiple follicles. Final eggs maturity is completed by administering of human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG).

After this, **egg retrieval** is scheduled to 34 - 36 hours after hCG injection. Intravenous sedation is need to perform this operation. Ovarian follicles are aspirated using a needle guided by trans-vaginal ultrasonography. Then an embryologist scans follicular fluids to locate all available eggs. The eggs are placed in a special media and cultured in an incubator until insemination.

Next step is, **fertilization and embryo culture**. If sperm is motile enough, it is transferred to the dish containing the eggs. This is called standard insemination.

Once fertilization is done, it's results are assessed after 16 - 18 hours on **embryo quality** step. Zygotes (fertilized eggs) are cultured in a culture medium that supports their growth. Zygotes are also assessed on the second, third day and fifth days. Different protocols are used to handle them respecting their growth rate and quality.

Finally, the last stage is **embryo transfer**. Embryos are transferred on day 3 when they are at the cleavage stage (6 - 8 cells) or on day 5 when they have reached the blastocyst stage. It is a simple procedure that does not require any anesthesia. Embryos are placed to the uterine cavity through the cervix by means of a soft catheter.


### 2) Textbook "The World of Chemistry" The First Year Unit 1

#### Answer the questions  in written  form Ex.1

Ex. 1:
1. How would you define chemistry?

Chemistry is the field of human scientific knowledge which combines a wide range of disciplines studying the nature of matter, the variety of basic chemical elements and compounds made from them, and the laws governing chemical bonds.

2. Think of the word chemistry. What comes to you mind?

- Bubbling test-tubes and cucurbits
- Men and women wearing thick glasses, white-coats and heavy gloves
- Smoking pipes of colossal oil processing plants
- Ball-and-stick models of complex molecules illustrating the spatial orientation of the atoms

Ex. 2: Working with Text (read, translate and retell).P.10####
Please, think about how the topic of the text relates to your own life or give your opinion on something in the text.

While text is a nice piece of overview of the chemistry as a cultural phenomena and a wide field of science, it lacks key points on showing the boundaries of application of this scientific knowledge. Phrase like "includes the whole universe" sends a wrong signal to a reader that chemistry appliance is boundless. Which is not true.

Chemistry starts and ends with a conditions in which we can speak of chemical bounds. High energy processes and phenomena which related to sub-atomic structure of matter are not affected by chemical laws due to relatively lower energy scale on which those laws work. E. g. thermonuclear synthesis in stars, state of matter in neutron stars and black holes, behavior and dynamics of particle beams in human-made accelerators and colliders. The story of chemistry had begun in the history of Universe only when matter was cooled to a degree when free electrons and protons recombined to form electrically neutral hydrogen atoms.

Ex. 3: Look through the text again and deduce which of the following ideas are not expressed in the passage:

4. It's necessary to demonstrate the influence of chemistry on science in general and its position in society.

9. Every chemical element is characterized by a definite atomic number.


Ex. 4: Look through the text again and
a) find all the definitions that are given in it;
- **Matter** is defined as anything that has mass and occupies space
- The way it is arranged is called its **structure**
- The parts of the structure and the ratio in which they are organized are called its **composition**.
- **Chemistry** is a science that deals with the composition and properties of substances and with the reactions by which substances are produced from, or converted into, other substances.
- **Scientific method** is a systematic experimentation.
- **Organic chemistry** - the chemistry of living things.
- **Inorganic chemistry** - the chemistry of nonliving things.

b) give your own definitions to the chemical terms in italics.

- *Matter* is everything which consists of quarks and leptons. (*Dark matter* should not be counted as *Matter*)
- *Structure*is the spatial distribution of Matter.
- *Composition* is the full list of elements, their ratio and structure which characterizes compound substance.
- *Chemistry* is the field of human scientific knowledge which combines a wide range of disciplines studying the nature of matter, the variety of basic chemical elements and compounds made from them, and the laws governing chemical bonds.
- *Scientific method* is the practice used to gather and process scientific knowledge out of systematic experimentation and observation of nature.
- *Organic chemistry* is the domain of chemistry which studies complex compound substances of carbon.
- *Inorganic chemistry* is the domain of chemistry which studies every compound which is not studied in  *Organic chemistry*.
