###1) Watch the video and try to learn all the new words.###
https://www.engvid.com/english-teacher/emma/  "IELTS Writing Task 1: How to describe a process"

Find, choose the  information about a flow-chart, write your own describing. You have to to use this template
(introduction, main body, overview) and do not forget to mention the sequencers: next, once etc.

With modern tendencies of having children later in their lives more and more people resort to an assisted reproduction. The most commonly used procedure is in-vitro fertilization (IVF) with standard insemination. Let's describe IVF as step-by-step process.

First, **control ovarian hyperstimulation** (COH) is done. According to the most common protocol (long GnRH-Agonist) the secretion of gonadotropin hormones is suppressed in order to prevent premature ovulation. Gonadotropin injections on daily basis lead to recruitment of multiple follicles. Final eggs maturity is completed by administering of human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG).

After this, **egg retrieval** is scheduled to 34 - 36 hours after hCG injection. Intravenous sedation is need to perform this operation. Ovarian follicles are aspirated using a needle guided by trans-vaginal ultrasonography. Then an embryologist scans follicular fluids to locate all available eggs. The eggs are placed in a special media and cultured in an incubator until insemination.

Next step is, **fertilization and embryo culture**. If sperm is motile enough, it is transferred to the dish containing the eggs. This is called standard insemination.

Once fertilization is done, it's results are assessed after 16 - 18 hours on **embryo quality** step. Zygotes (fertilized eggs) are cultured in a culture medium that supports their growth. Zygotes are also assessed on the second, third day and fifth days. Different protocols are used to handle them respecting their growth rate and quality.

Finally, the last stage is **embryo transfer**. Embryos are transferred on day 3 when they are at the cleavage stage (6 - 8 cells) or on day 5 when they have reached the blastocyst stage. It is a simple procedure that does not require any anesthesia. Embryos are placed to the uterine cavity through the cervix by means of a soft catheter.


###2) Textbook "The World of Chemistry" The First Year Unit 1###
####Answer the questions  in written  form Ex.1####

1. How would you define chemistry?

Chemistry is the field of human scientific knowledge which combines a wide range of disciplines studying the nature of substance, the variety of basic chemical elements and compounds made from them, and the laws governing chemical bonds.

2. Think of the word chemistry. What comes to you mind?

- Bubbling test-tubes and cucurbits
- Men and women wearing thick glasses, white-coats and heavy gloves
- Smoking pipes of colossal oil processing plants
- Ball-and-stick models of complex molecules illustrating the spatial orientation of the atoms






