Exercise 7, 9, 19, Unit 1 Kutepova


### Unit 1 Exercise 7
A.
1) chemistry
2) composition
3) properties
4) matter
5) changes
6) branch
7) science
8) scientific method
9) experiments
10) law

B.
1. g
2. h
3. m
4. d
5. i
6. c
7. l
8. j
9. o
10. k
11. a
12. n
13. e
14. b
15. f

### Unit 1 Exercise 9
Chemistry is the science which tackles with the questions related to substances, their composition, properties and transformations. Since ancient times man have been utilizing multiple chemical processes, since then the field of chemistry developed in close connection with practical needs of human society.

Chemistry has been developed by accumulation of practical knowledge and experimental skills until 17th-18th centuries. Scientific base of chemistry started to emerge only in 18th century.

Modern chemistry consists of several branches: inorganic chemistry, which studies properties of chemical elements, substances and their transformations (?), i. e. inanimate matter; organic chemistry, the subject of which is compounds of carbon, i. e. animate matter; physical chemistry, which widely applies methods of physics to study chemical processes etc.

Chemistry is closely related to biochemistry which studies chemical processes in living organisms and to geochemistry, the subject of which is what happens in the Earth's crust and so on.

### Unit 1 Exercise 19
First name: Dmitry
Family name: Mendeleev
Date and place of birth: 1834, Tobolsk
Occupation: chemist
Qualification: outstanding scientist, doctor of philosophy
Nationality: Russia
