### Family traditions

My family was not so big even in my childhood when we all lived together. Me, my older brother Dmitry, my mother Natalya Victorovna and my father Evgeniy Vasilievich. My father passed away in the end of the august, Dmitry lives in Salekhard for 12 years by now with his wife and kids, I had moved to Moscow in early September, and only mohter stays in my hometown Penza.

Our traditions I want to tell you about are all from my childhood. Those I remember the most.

First one is celebration of Holy Trinity which is 50th day from the Easter in Orthodox tradition. Easter date is varying, so as Holy Trinity day, but it is almost always happens in the end of May or start of June. So it was a pretty good chances of catching first summer warmth.

My family and I went to the dacha at that day usually. We decorated our house with maple and linden branches emerald with fresh leaves. Having a relaxed day outdoors always associates with great joy and happiness from those days.

Second tradition is the picking mushrooms. We did it at the end of the summer most if the times. For that we traveled to my mother's home village Sura in Penza region. Forests are very good for mushrooms there. We went for 'silent hunt' with my grandmother and grandfather, mother's parents, they have known those forests very good, so there was no risk to get lost.

One can find a great variety of mushrooms there. Most valuable were porcine or ceps because they have the best taste, and milk agarics because they can be pickled and stored for the winter.

Another tradition was to celebrate my grandfather's (father's father) birthday. While celebrating birthdays is not something uniq, but in this case all my relatives from father's side gathered together, including my uncles, aunts and cousins. So it was pretty overcrowded but fun nonetheless. I miss those happy times.


### Grammar exercise

Put a (+) sign if the sentences are grammatically correct, a (-) sign if the sentence is wrong and correct those which you think are grammatically incorrect.

1. The scientist went to Glasgow last week to participate in the conference. (+)

2. I have known a student once who had only bad grades in his student's book. (+)

3. Ann Baker already wrote four scientific articles about her experiment. (+)

4. Julia left the notes of the lecture at home. Then she has remembered what was written in them. (-)

Julia left the notes of the lecture at home. Then she *had* remembered what was written in them.

5. I'll introduce you to Dr Brown - or have you met him before? (-)

I'll introduce you to Dr Brown - or *had* you met him before? (-)

6. We've had enormous problems recently with glassware in the laboratory. We just can't find many tubes. (-)

We've had enormous problems recently with glassware in the laboratory. We just *could not* find many tubes.

7. I have talked to her yesterday about experimentation in chemistry. (-)

I *had* talked to her yesterday about experimentation in chemistry.

8. The still try to observe and explain natural phenomena, the work they have started five years ago. (-)

They still try to observe and explain natural phenomena, the work they had started five years ago.

9. You have not yet explained clearly what you're doing here. (-)

You have not yet explained clearly what *are you* doing here.

10. We worked at this laboratory for three years now and like it a lot. (-)

We *have been working* at this laboratory for three years now and like it a lot.


### Vocabulary exercise

Translate the following sentences into Russian paying attention to the translation of the word matter:

1. Chemistry deals with the changes in the composition of matter, physics is concerned with changes in the location or size of matter.

Химия имеет дело с изменениями в составе веществ, физика изучает изменения местоположения и размера материи.

2. Animal and human organisms fight off infections and other invasions of foreign matter.

Организмы животных и людей борются с инфекциями и инвазиями чужеродных вещееств.

3. The subject matter of the lecture was the overview of chemistry.

Темой лекции был обзор химии.

4. The collection of scientific articles provides a serious reading matter.

Сборник научных статей представляет собой серъезный материал для чтения.

5. Is is not an easy matter to describe the phenomenon in details.

Описать явление подробно - вопрос не из легких.

6. His absence at the conference made the matter worse.

Его отсутсвие на конференции только все усугубило.

7. The answer to this question will hardly matter under present conditions.

Ответ на вопрос вряд ли имеет значение в настоящих условиях.


### Exercise 5, page 24, Kutepova

Match the synonyms in columns A and B

1. to value           i) to appreciate
2. ability            n) power
3. decay              k) decomposition
4. to damage          g) to ruin
5. to urge            j) to force
6. desire             c) lust
7. purpose            o) aim
8. to be related to   m) to be connected with
9. benefit            d) advantage
10. remedy            e) medication
11. to evolve         h) to develop
12. reliance          l) trust
13. evidence          b) testimony
14. recognition       a) admission
15. therefore         f) hence
16. rare              t) unique
17. to resist         p) to oppose
18. permanence        q) constancy
19. to spread         r) to scatter
20. dependent         s) subordinate
